_pages/cv.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Hayden Bergschneider - Curriculum Vitae
permalink: /cv/
---
## Curriculum Vitae

<div class="cv-embed">
  <iframe src="{{ "/assets/CV.pdf?v=2" | relative_url }}" width="100%" height="800" style="border:1px solid #ddd; border-radius:6px;"></iframe>
</div>

[Download my resume]({{ "/assets/CV.pdf" | relative_url }}) in PDF format.


**Email:** [hjb98@cornell.edu](mailto:hjb98@cornell.edu) | | | **Phone:** +1 217 615 9613

---

#### Objective
I am a mechanical engineering student at Cornell University with previous experience in entrepreneurship and leadership roles. I have started my own business and curated events for a local company where I worked. I love designing and implementing my ideas into real world applications and am looking forward to my future after Cornell!


#### Education
- **Cornell University**  
  *Bachelor of Science in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering*  
  Graduation: May, 2028

- **Meridian High School**  
  *High School Diploma*  
  Graduation: May, 2024

---

#### Skills
- **Software:** AutoCAD, SolidWorks, AutoDesk Fusion
- **Programming:** Python, MATLAB
- **Tools:** Red Appron Certified, 3D Printing

---

#### Projects
- **Actuator Arm**:  
  *Design a mechanism to lift a max weight to a max height.*  
  - Finding a mechanical advatange based on geometry 
  - Using both kinematics and statics to determine equilibrium


- **Thermodynamic System Analysis**:  
  *Analyze and evaluate a real-world power generation system using first- and second-law thermodynamics.*  
  - Modeling a steady-flow open system using control volumes
  - Applying mass, energy, and entropy balances to compressors, combustors, and turbines
  - Evaluating system performance using thermal efficiency and net power output
  - Assessing how changes in operating conditions (e.g., turbine inlet temperature) impact efficiency and design tradeoffs


---

#### Achievements & Certifications
- Illinois State Scholar, 2024 
- Illinois State Individual Academic Excellence in Chemistry 2023, 2024
- Illinois State Individual Academic Excellence in Mathematics 2023, 2024
 (These awards are for being a top ten student in Illinois in the subject/year listed based on a state-wide competition.)
---

#### Extracurricular Activities
- Business Lead of Cornell Hyperloop
- Member of Cornell Boxing Club  

---

#### References
Available upon request.

---

Commit message:

Add Fusion360 and AutoCAD Workbench projects, hide Statics Actuator project, and update CV

_pages/cv.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Hayden Bergschneider - Curriculum Vitae
permalink: /cv/
---
## Curriculum Vitae

<div class="cv-embed">
  <iframe src="{{ "/assets/CV.pdf?v=2" | relative_url }}" width="100%" height="800" style="border:1px solid #ddd; border-radius:6px;"></iframe>
</div>

[Download my resume]({{ "/assets/CV.pdf" | relative_url }}) in PDF format.


**Email:** [hjb98@cornell.edu](mailto:hjb98@cornell.edu) | | | **Phone:** +1 217 615 9613

---

#### Objective
I am a mechanical engineering student at Cornell University with previous experience in entrepreneurship and leadership roles. I have started my own business and curated events for a local company where I worked. I love designing and implementing my ideas into real world applications and am looking forward to my future after Cornell!


#### Education
- **Cornell University**  
  *Bachelor of Science in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering*  
  Graduation: May, 2028

- **Meridian High School**  
  *High School Diploma*  
  Graduation: May, 2024

---

#### Skills
- **Software:** AutoCAD, SolidWorks, AutoDesk Fusion
- **Programming:** Python, MATLAB
- **Tools:** Machine Shop Certified, 3D Printing

---

#### Projects


- **Thermodynamic System Analysis**:  
  *Analyze and evaluate a real-world power generation system using first- and second-law thermodynamics.*  
  - Modeling a steady-flow open system using control volumes
  - Applying mass, energy, and entropy balances to compressors, combustors, and turbines
  - Evaluating system performance using thermal efficiency and net power output
  - Assessing how changes in operating conditions (e.g., turbine inlet temperature) impact efficiency and design tradeoffs

- **Fusion 360 Design Project**:  
  *Beginner design in Fusion 360 for a large mug with plans for 3D printing and machining.*  
  - Gaining foundational skills in parametric 3D modeling using Fusion 360
  - Understanding design-for-manufacturing principles for 3D printing and machining
  - Preparing product for final manufacturing and production

- **AutoCAD Workbench Design**:  
  *Design and layout of a functional workbench (96" x 24" x 36") with multi-layer storage.*  
  - Creating a practical workspace design with optimized efficiency and ergonomics
  - Designing wooden storage solutions for industrial workshop applications
  - Implementing structural integrity for heavy-duty workbench applications




---

#### Achievements & Certifications
- Illinois State Scholar, 2024 
- Illinois State Individual Academic Excellence in Chemistry 2023, 2024
- Illinois State Individual Academic Excellence in Mathematics 2023, 2024
 (These awards are for being a top ten student in Illinois in the subject/year listed based on a state-wide competition.)
---

#### Extracurricular Activities
- Business Lead of Cornell Hyperloop
- Member of Cornell Boxing Club  

---

#### References
Available upon request.

---
